Project Outline

Basic Simulation Prodedure (contained in sim(x, y)):
  0. Build pore geometry from x and y intercepts 
  1. Spawn particle at random x location at top of lattice (top 15 units)
  2. Random walk particle until it either 
    1) sticks to surface or another particle
    2) exits the membrane through the pore
  3. If the particle sticks
    1) check for pore closure
    2) save raw lattice data in txt file
  4. If the pore is not closed, repeat from step 1
  5. Import data into Excel and graph
  
  
Basic Data Collection Procedure:
  1. Input specific porosity
  2. Determine the integer pore geometries that match given porosity (given variable rounding)
  3. For each pore geometry, run sim(x, y) 50 times 
  4. Aggregate the resulting particle configurations and record total particle stuck / tested


Data Collection & Interpretation:
While we want to maximize the time the pore remains unclogged, we also do not want a large number of particles to pass through the filter completely, which would 
defeat the purpose of a filter. Let us define two variables, A and B. Let A be the total number of stuck particles at the end of the simulation, and let B be the 
total number of particles tested during the simulation. We want to maximize B, but minimize (B - A) / B. We can combine these two ideas into a final variable, namely
X = 2A - B, which we want to maximize.
Notice, X increases as a new particle gets stuck without clogging the pore. X decreases as a new particle exits the pore without getting stuck. X is finalized when
the pore is clogged and no new particles are generated. When analyzing the data, we can look at all three variables to determine a conclusion. 

Possible Improvements & Future Developments:
  1. 3D version
  2. random, independent particle generation (can have multiple or 0 moving particles at once)
  3. variable/realistic particle shape/size (not all particles are squares/cubes/1 unit, they can be circular/weirdly shaped)
  4. "stickiness" to determine whether a particle gets stuck, or a stuck particles becomes free again. 


